Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a Sci-fi film
called "Demolition Man."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 1996, parts of Los Angeles had fallen to
the hands of hardened criminals who protect
their racket by killing anyone who walks into
their territory.
Somewhere in the city, one gang had just hijacked
a bus with 30 passengers because the driver
dared to pass through an area under their
control.
The man most keen on stopping the thugs is
John Spartan, who has earned the epithet "the
Demolition Man" for his habit of leaving a
trail of destruction when he goes after criminals.
On the way to the gang's headquarters, Spartan
tells Officer Zachary Lamb that he has a hunch
that the gang leader is the maniac named Simon
Phoenix.
Upon their arrival, Spartan jumps to the top
of the building and maims several thugs as
Phoenix watches him from the monitors.
Phoenix, enraged by Spartan's arrival, punctures
several barrels of gasoline as the police
officer draws closer to his location.
After evading a few more goons, Spartan makes
his way to the room where Phoenix awaits.
He asks Phoenix where the hostages are, but
he refuses to divulge their location.
When Spartan threatens to shoot the Phoenix,
the criminal warns Spartan that he's standing
in a pool of gasoline, and he's ready to light
him up.
With Spartan unable to make a move, Phoenix
calmly lights up a cigarette and throws it
on the gas-covered floor.
As the gas ignites, Spartan backs away from
the fire and charges Phoenix.
Spartan asks Phoenix again where he kept the
bus passengers as they strike blows against
each other.
Phoenix, however, still refuses to tell him,
so Spartan knocks him out and carries him
out of the burning building.
Spartan and Phoenix barely escaped when the
barrels start exploding.
After the explosion, the police chief scolds
Spartan for going after Phoenix when he wasn't
even assigned to the case.
When the captain asks Spartan about the hostages,
he says he had done a thermal scan to search
for them, but he only saw Phoenix's men.
Phoenix overhears the conversation and contends
that Spartan is wrong.
A fireman soon informs the captain that they've
found around 30 bodies in the ruins of the
building.
Phoenix claims that he's tried telling Spartan
about the hostages, but the cop didn't care.
Spartan begins to worry as the police chief
advises him to contact his lawyer.
Soon, Spartan is convicted of involuntary
manslaughter and sentenced to spend 70 years
in cryo-stasis.
As part of the rehabilitation program, Spartan
will be placed under synaptic suggestion in
his frozen state.
As soon as the warden, William Smithers, finishes
reading the sentence, Spartan is placed in
a cylindrical encasement.
While the container is filled with liquid,
the warden takes a canister and loads it onto
the cryogenic machine.
A ball of chemical is released onto Spartan's
container, freezing him in an instant.
Thirty-six years later, Los Angeles is now
merged with San Diego and Santa Barbara to
form the megacity called San Angeles.
Lieutenant Lenina Huxley gives Smithers a
call to ask about the situation at the cryo-penitentiary
as she patrols the streets.
The warden assures her that there is nothing
to worry about because the prisoners are frozen.
Huxley drives back to the station, telling
Smithers that she's disappointed by the lack
of activity.
Down in the sewers, Edgar Friendly looks through
his periscope to observe a van as it drives
away after delivering food to an establishment.
Friendly surmises that another van will arrive
in twelve hours, noting that the movement
of goods in the city has become too predictable.
His associate warns him that there will not
be enough of them to rob the vehicle when
it returns, but Friendly argues that they
have nothing left to lose.
At the police station, Captain George Earle
issues a warning to Huxley, as she seems to
be longing for some crime to happen so she
could get some action.
When she enters her office, she whispers an
expletive to describe the police chief, causing
the automated machine to give her a fine of
half a credit for cussing.
Officer Alfredo Garcia follows the lieutenant,
telling her that the encounter with the police
chief was quite intense.
Huxley asks Garcia if he doesn't get bored
chasing after people who break curfew or other
culprits who tell dirty jokes.
Garcia tells her that he finds his current
job profoundly fulfilling.
On the other hand, Huxley is getting fed up
with her current situation due to the lack
of challenges on the streets.
In the cryo-penitentiary, the warden unfreezes
Phoenix for his parole hearing.
As he is briefed about the proceedings, Phoenix
antagonizes the warden and suddenly utters
the words, "teddy bear," causing his shackles
to unlock.
Phoenix immediately attacks the guards, who
are left wondering how the prisoner knew the
password to the cuffs.
After he kills them, Phoenix takes the warden's
eye and holds it in front of the retinal scanners
to open the door.
As Phoenix makes his way out of the facility,
the police station receives an alert for code
187 from the central computer L7.
The cops don't recognize the code, so Huxley
looks it up on the computer.
They are soon shocked to learn that it's MurderDeathKill,
which they haven't encountered in over 16
years.
They're even more horrified when L7 shows
them live footage of Smithers crawling on
the floor just before he dies from his severe
injuries.
Huxley looks up the list of prisoners scheduled
for parole that day and discovers that one
of them is Simon Phoenix.
Huxley tries to find more information on Phoenix
by looking up his access code, but Zachary
Lamb says he is not coded because he was frozen
before the city implanted chips in the residents.
As Huxley reads about Phoenix's arrest record,
L7 informs them that Phoenix has killed more
people before leaving the cryo-penitentiary.
Huxley pinpoints the criminal's location by
tracking the vehicle he stole.
Phoenix soon learns that he has gained new
skills when he stops by an information booth
to look up Edgar Friendly.
When he sees Friendly's file, he suddenly
hears a voice in his head, suggesting that
he should kill Friendly.
Officers soon arrive at the scene while he
uses the computer to find out where to acquire
firearms.
The police, however, have no clue how to deal
with Phoenix due to their lack of experience.
Phoenix activates the anti-graffiti mechanism
on the wall to incapacitate a cop standing
close to it.
He then beats the remaining officers with
his bare hands and taunts the police watching
him from the security cameras at the station.
Dr. Raymond Cocteau, the man who governs the
megacity, soon receives information about
the M.D.K. incidents following Phoenix's escape.
So he calls Earle and tells him to do everything
in his power to apprehend the escaped felon.
Huxley learns Spartan was the only one who
managed to arrest Phoenix, so she suggests
unfreezing Spartan to find and catch the fugitive
again.
Soon, they take Spartan out of cryo-stasis
and reinstate him to the police force, despite
the apprehensions of Captain Earle.
After Spartan regains consciousness, he learns
that his wife has died in the great earthquake
of 2010, and his daughter's whereabouts are
unknown.
Huxley then informs him that Phoenix had escaped
from prison that morning and had already committed
11 murders.
Spartan asks for a cigarette, but Huxley tells
him that it's banned because anything deemed
unhealthy has been declared illegal.
Spartan soon receives a fine from L7 after
he spews out an expletive when he finds out
that alcohol, meat, and contact sports have
been banned as well.
Earle tells him to get ready to find Pheonix,
but Spartan refuses, arguing that he ended
up being frozen when he caught the maniac
36 years ago.
Earle tells Spartan that he has no choice
but to arrest Phoenix again if he doesn't
want to go back to cryo-stasis.
Huxley informs Spartan that it's hard for
them to track Phoenix down because he doesn't
have a microchip implant on his hand.
When Spartan dismisses the implant as fascist,
the police chief tells him that he also has
one in his hand.
Earle argues that they don't need Spartan
to catch Phoenix because the computer already
had predicted the criminal's next moves.
L7 has concluded that Phoenix will set up
a drug lab and try to assemble a new gang.
Spartan, however, believes that Phoenix will
go somewhere he can steal firearms, which
are now only found in museums.
Phoenix soon finds his way to the San Angeles
Museum of History, as Spartan had predicted.
The fugitive heads straight for the armory
after finding out its location from the kiosk.
Spartan, Huxley, and Garcia go to the museum,
although Huxley is still skeptical that Phoenix
would succeed in grabbing the weapons because
they're stored in a maximum-security exhibit.
Upon reaching the armory, Phoenix jumps with
glee before trying to break the display with
his fists.
When he fails, Phoenix slams one of the museum's
guards through the glass, causing it to shatter.
Phoenix then grabs a shotgun and uses it to
break the other displays that house more powerful
weapons.
Spartan and his companions approach the museum
armed with a glow rod, which can only stun
its target.
Spartan tells the other two to wait for him
outside and give him 10 minutes to arrest
Phoenix.
Spartan soon catches up to Phoenix, but the
criminal immediately shoots at him as soon
as he appears.
As Spartan takes cover, he finds a shotgun
on the floor and uses it to fire back at Phoenix,
causing the felon to fall back to another
room.
As the firefight continues, Spartan notices
that Phoenix is hiding behind a kiosk with
a nearby lamp.
So Spartan shoots the lamp, making it fall
through the glass floor.
Phoenix falls to an exhibit of downtown Los
Angeles that was preserved after the quake
rocked the city in 2010.
Phoenix soon gets up and shoots back at Spartan,
causing him to fall to the same area.
Phoenix tries a powerful laser gun called
the AcMag on Spartan, but the cop manages
to dodge it.
Phoenix loses his weapon, so he proceeds to
beat Spartan up with his martial arts skills.
Spartan swings an old T.V. at Phoenix to knock
him down.
He then uses the glow rod to electrocute the
felon while he's standing on a puddle.
Phoenix manages to grab hold of the AcMag
again and shoots it at Spartan, causing the
cop to take cover.
Phoenix runs out of the museum and comes across
Cocteau and his assistant Bob.
The felon tries to shoot Cocteau, but he can't
seem to pull the trigger.
Cocteau asks Phoenix about the thought repeating
in his brain, ordering him to kill Friendly.
Cocteau reiterates the command to Phoenix,
but their impromptu meeting is soon interrupted
when Spartan catches up.
After Phoenix leaves, Cocteau thanks Spartan
for saving his life and invites him to dinner.
At the restaurant, Cocteau brags to Spartan
how he restored order to the megacity when
there was nothing but chaos and destruction.
Spartan tells him that he'd rather live elsewhere
due to the strict rules in San Angeles.
Cocteau argues Spartan would've been executed
for his crimes, so he should be grateful that
they opted to put him in cryo-stasis instead.
Spartan, however, tells them that his frozen
state was no picnic because he had nightmares
about the people burning in Phoenix's headquarters.
During their meal, Spartan suddenly sees suspicious
men outside the restaurant, so he goes after
them.
Friendly and his gang soon emerge from the
sewers to rob the van delivering food to the
restaurant.
Spartan takes down several members of the
gang, so Friendly sends more people after
him.
When Spartan sees the mob chasing after him,
he cuts down the rope of a tent, causing the
canvas to fall on his pursuers.
While the spectators cheer for Spartan, Friendly
and a few of his people retreat into the sewers
with some food.
Spartan grabs one of the men to attack him,
but he stops when he finds out that they were
stealing food.
Cocteau explains that those people were known
as "scraps," who had chosen to dwell under
the sewers and abandoned tunnels instead of
living in comfort in the megacity.
Bob informs Spartan that the scraps are the
last remaining criminal element in the city,
and plans are already underway to get rid
of them.
When Cocteau and Bob arrive at their office,
they find Phoenix waiting for them.
Phoenix tells Cocteau that he is happy with
the new skills and knowledge he acquired during
his frozen state.
Cocteau reminds him that those skills were
given to him so he could kill Friendly.
Phoenix tells him that he needs more men to
execute his mission, so he provides Cocteau
with a list of criminals he wants to set free
from the cryo-penitentiary.
Huxley takes Spartan back to her apartment
filled with 20th-century memorabilia.
Huxley tells him that she was aroused when
she watched him fight the scraps earlier,
so she invites him to have intercourse with
her.
Spartan is perplexed by the offer, but he
agrees.
Huxley goes to another room and comes back
with two virtual reality helmets.
After putting on the device, she tells him
that they can begin to make love.
As soon as Spartan closes his eyes, he sees
himself being intimate with Huxley, but he
soon becomes frustrated by the lack of physical
contact, so he breaks it off.
He tells Huxley that he wants to do it the
"old-fashioned way," but the idea grosses
her out.
She tells him that kissing and other fluid
transfer activities have been outlawed because
of the diseases that they caused.
Spartan tries to kiss Huxley, but she tells
him to leave her apartment.
Spartan goes to his apartment and loads a
disc that Huxley gave to him earlier.
The disc contains security footage showing
Cocteau being approached by Phoenix after
the criminal raided the museum.
Spartan sees that Cocteau did not seem afraid
of Phoenix even when the criminal pointed
the gun at him.
The following day, Spartan apologizes to Huxley
by giving her a sweater he knitted the previous
night.
Spartan wonders how he had the knowledge to
knit, so Huxley tells him that the ability
and desire were implanted on him as part of
his rehabilitation.
When they check Phoenix's rehab scheme, they're
surprised to find out that he had been programmed
to become a more efficient killer.
Huxley tells Spartan that Cocteau Industries
developed the program, so he decides to stop
by Cocteau's office to confront him about
Phoenix.
When Spartan reaches the video conference
room, Cocteau apologizes through the monitors
that he can't be present physically because
he's dealing with important matters.
Spartan voices out his suspicions that Cocteau
had something to do with Phoenix's escape.
Cocteau deflects from the issue by suggesting
that Spartan, not Phoenix, probably destroyed
the museum.
After shooting down the monitors, Spartan
manages to get to Cocteau's office and point
a gun to his head, warning him that he wouldn't
be able to control Phoenix.
Cocteau orders Huxley to return Spartan to
cryo-stasis because he is the one who is out
of control.
Instead of going back to the prison, Spartan
asks Huxley and Garcia to help him find Phoenix
below the sewers.
He argues that they couldn't find the fugitive
because they don't monitor the sewers, and
cops are afraid to go there.
Down in the sewers, the trio soon comes across
Friendly while they're gawking at the beauty
of a 1970 model Oldsmobile.
They tell Friendly that they are not after
him, but they warn him that Cocteau wants
him dead.
Meanwhile, Phoenix briefs the gang of men
and women who were just freed from the cryo-penitentiary.
He tells them that they'll soon be running
the city when they kill Cocteau.
As a bonus, they also get to kill Spartan,
who had put most of them under cryo-stasis.
Phoenix and his gang soon come across Spartan
and Friendly while scouring the sewers.
The goons start shooting at the cops, prompting
them to run for cover.
Phoenix sees Spartan hiding as he protects
a civilian, so he aims his AcMag at the cop.
But before he could shoot, Friendly sees him
and fires at the footpath where's Phoenix
is standing, causing the outlaw to fall to
the ground.
Failing to kill Spartan, Phoenix escapes to
the surface and drives away in Huxley's car.
Huxley and Spartan chase after Phoenix using
the Oldsmobile from the sewers.
As they get close to Phoenix, Spartan shoots
down the vehicle's wheels, but Phoenix activates
the auto-inflate.
Spartan tells Huxley to take the steering
wheel and jumps onto Phoenix's car.
Phoenix engages the auto-drive and tries to
push Spartan off the vehicle.
As they struggle, Phoenix tells Spartan that
he had already killed the bus passengers he
had taken as hostages in 1996 before the building
blew up.
As Spartan hangs from the vehicle, Phoenix
punches him several times, but he hangs on
and throws Phoenix out of the car.
Spartan tries to stop the vehicle, but the
computer fails to follow his instruction.
He manages to turn off the auto-pilot, but
the car won't break.
After the car hits a glass display outside
a building, it starts filling up with foam
to protect Spartan.
Huxley arrives at the scene and helps Spartan
out of the vehicle.
Phoenix pays another visit to Cocteau, who
is delighted that the destruction caused by
Phoenix has left the people terrified.
He tells Phoenix that he now has the mandate
to create a perfect society.
Phoenix tries to kill Cocteau again, but he's
still unable to pull the trigger.
In frustration, he orders one of his men to
shoot Cocteau and throw his body into the
fireplace.
Phoenix sees Sparta and Huxley arrive at Cocteau
Industries through the security cam, sending
two of his men to attack them.
After dealing with the two gang members, Huxley
and Spartan find out that Cocteau has been
killed.
They also learn that Phoenix intends to unfreeze
more criminals, so they immediately prepare
to follow him to the cryo-penitentiary.
However, Spartan stuns Huxley with the glow
rod so he could deal with Phoenix on his own.
At the prison complex, Phoenix is starting
to unfreeze the criminals with Bob's help.
After learning that the process is already
in the final stages, he kills the remaining
personnel at the facility.
Spartan soon arrives and engages Phoenix in
a shootout.
While hiding from Spartan, Phoenix takes control
of a large mechanical claw and moves it toward
Spartan to grab him.
As Spartan hangs from the crane, Phoenix toys
with him by moving the claw around as he shoots
Spartan.
Phoenix soon hits a pipe on the claw, causing
the freezing agent to leak out.
Spartan then grabs the leaking pipe and directs
it to the crane so he could smash it after
it freezes.
After Spartan breaks free, Phoenix fires a
laser gun at him, but it soon runs out of
energy.
Phoenix engages Spartan in hand-to-hand combat
and gains the upper hand due to his acquired
skills during cryo-stasis.
Spartan fights back and manages to knock him
down once, but Phoenix quickly recovers and
sweep kicks him to the ground.
Phoenix tries to drop a barrel on Spartan,
but he dodges it and grabs a vial of the cryogenic
chemical on the ground.
As Phoenix approaches to attack him, Spartan
breaks the vial to release the chemical and
freeze Phoenix.
Spartan grabs onto a moving crane to avoid
getting frozen.
When the crane reaches Phoenix, he kicks his
head off, causing it to fall to the ground
and shatter.
Spartan runs out of the prison as the uncontrolled
freezing triggers a series of explosions throughout
the facility.
Outside, Spartan informs Earle that Phoenix
is dead and the cryo-prison is no longer functional.
Earle worries that they won't be able to keep
peace and order in the megacity after Cocteau's
death, but Spartan assures them that they'll
figure it out somehow.
Huxley sarcastically tells Spartan that she
appreciates being knocked out to keep her
safe.
When she complains that they're supposed to
work together, Spartan agrees and kisses her.
After breaking off the kiss, Huxley hears
that other fluid transfer activities feel
even better, so she kisses Spartan again.